= Archives 0.0.1

Ruby gem for using Korea Government Archives Search OpenAPI (http://search.archives.go.kr/ArchivesHelp06.htm).
대한민국 국가기록원 나라기록검색 OpenAPI를 위한 루비젬입니다.


== Install / 설치법

You can install the gem from rubyforge directly.
루비포지에서 바로 설치하실 수 있습니다.
	gem install archives


== Usage / 사용법

Before using this gem, you need to get your own API key. To obtain your API key, see http://search.archives.go.kr/ArchivesHelp06.htm.
이 젬을 사용하기 전에 API 키를 발급 받으셔야 합니다. API 키 발급을 위해서는 http://search.archives.go.kr/ArchivesHelp06.htm 링크를 참고해 주세요.

	require 'archives'
	archives = Archives::Base.new(api_key)		### create a Archives client / Archives 클라이언트를 생성합니다
	archives.request("한국전쟁")		### search without any options / 아무 조건 없이 쿼리만으로 검색할 수 있습니다
	archives.request("한국전쟁", {:rc_type => "rfile", :prod_year_start => "2005"})		### return RSS object defined in this gem / 자체 정의된 RSS 클래스 오브젝트를 반환합니다
	archives.request("한국전쟁", {:rt => "rfile", :pys => "2005"})		### you can use abbreviation
	archives.request("한국전쟁").title		### return title of RSS object
	archives.request("한국전쟁").items.each do |i|		### iteration over items
		i.title		### title of each item
	end

You may want to take a look at the test file (test/test_archives.rb) to better understand the usage.
보다 자세한 사용법을 이해하시길 원하시면 테스트 파일 (test/test_archives.rb)을 참고하시면 됩니다.


== Search Option Abbreviation List / 검색 옵션 약어 목록

The full list of abbreviation codes is the following. (You can still use full name of each parameter.)
약어 전체 목록을 아래에 정리하였습니다. (약어를 쓰지 않으셔도 작동합니다.)

	rt = rc_type
	pys = prod_year_start
	pye = prod_year_end
	pc = prod_code
	pdc = prod_dir_code
	io = is_open
	or = online_reading
	ret = record_type
	dt = doc_type
	mo = mgt_organ
	s = sort
	o = order
	d = display
	p = pageno
	qp = query_phrase
	qo = query_or
	qe = query_exclude
	qt = query_type
	qf = query_field


== License

Copyright:: Copyright (c) 2008 Hyunwoo Park <hwpark@oksurerails.com>
License::   MIT <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php>
